It is easy to admit that we are imperfect.
But why is it that it is so painful
when we receive correction?
We all know the right attitude we should have
as outlined here in Psalm 141 and verse 5.
Shall we read that? Psalm 141 and verse 5.
It says,
Should the righteous one strike me,
it would be an act of loyal love.
Should he approve me?
It would be like oil on my head,
which my head would never refuse.
So maybe we are affected by a world review of discipline.
One dictionary says,
Discipline is punishment to gain control.
Another dictionary says,
Discipline is to make people obey
and to punish when they don't.
It's so different from Jehovah God's point of view, isn't it?
In our text for today,
here in Hebrews,
it says that Jehovah invites us as his children.
He says,
In verse 5,
My son,
and in verse 6,
For those whom Jehovah loves,
he disciplines.
So it puts discipline in a very appealing light, doesn't it?
So the bottom line is,
discipline is a form of training.
It's actually a very exciting process
because it helps us to get to know Jehovah even better.
So what we would like to do now is,
discuss three common reactions to discipline,
I guess all of us have been guilty of them at one time or another.
The first one is to feel very crushed,
embarrassed,
and we have this pain in our heart.
And this is very natural.
We see this even in little children
that they can feel very crushed
when they experience the displeasure of their parents,
and they react with a long face
and maybe even they start pounding.
But we ask Christians mature grown-ups,
we don't react that way, do we?
Now, the question is,
how do we react?
What should be the proper reaction?
First of all, do not be so overwhelmed by the emotion.
Do not feel sorry for yourself.
Another important point is,
it is painful
because the discipline exposes something very sensitive inside us.
It is much better to respond positively
towards the discipline,
because the council is given for our benefit.
Let us read the words here in Proverbs 15, verse 32.
Proverbs 15 and verse 32.
It says,
anyone refusing discipline
despises his life.
Yes, it is a miserable life
while fighting our correction or discipline.
And then it goes on to say,
but do ever listen to the reproof,
acquires understanding,
the fear of Jehovah
is a training in wisdom
and before glory there is humility.
So let us learn the lessons
and be trained by Jehovah.
Get the sense
before strong counsel comes
and before
some of the bad consequences come upon us.
The second negative reaction we may have
is that of dismissing the council.
Well, the council is wrong for me.
It is inappropriate.
I am not that bad.
And the person who counseled me does not see the full picture.
And by the way,
they can improve in the way of giving counsel.
Now, usually when we have this reaction,
it is because the council exposed
that we love what is wrong.
And we cover that
by accusing the bearer of the message
as unqualified.
The reality is,
we don't see the big picture.
Well, maybe we don't want to see the big picture.
And could it be that we rely on our own understanding
instead of Jehovah's view?
How about having this attitude
here in Proverbs 25 verse 12
as an attitude towards the counselor
when he gives us counsel and advice?
Proverbs 25 verse 12.
It says like an earring of gold
and an ornament of fine gold
is a wise reprover to the receptive ear.
So we can dignify the process
by adorning the bearer of the message,
the counselor,
with gold as it were.
So we need to respond with love,
truly see God's love
and love the correction
and the discipline we have.
Now, the third reaction,
we may be irritated
or angered by the council.
Who do they think they are?
Maybe it's a peer.
Maybe it is someone in our opinion
that is in the lower status than we are.
They have not been in the truth as long.
They do not know as much.
They are younger.
Whatever reason we might have.
We might look down on them
because they are not good teachers.
The question is,
are we willing to admit
that Jehovah knows better?
That it is really Jehovah talking to us.
And they may be a very important reason
why Jehovah selected that person
or that agency to come to us
and give us the advice.
Now, the scripture for our day text,
the unhebrus 12 verse 5,
it says that we must not despise
Jehovah's council.
It says we must not give up
when we are corrected by him.
Now, we may say,
well, if Jehovah comes to me
and he gives me this council directly,
of course I will listen,
but isn't this Jehovah's way
of speaking to us directly?
Think of the case of David.
When Nathan came to him,
David did not rebel.
He was not angry with Nathan.
He accepted the council
and he said,
I have sinned against Jehovah.
So what is the point?
Do not dismiss council
except the council wholeheartedly.
So in summary,
see the big picture.
When we are part of Jehovah's family
as we hopefully are,
all of us will receive much council,
much advice,
all the advice,
all the council that comes from Jehovah
is for our good.
Jehovah is shaping us individually
to become the kind of person
he wants us to become.
So this is not really a discussion
about the need of discipline,
but it is a discussion of our attitude
toward discipline.
Paul's words in Hebrews 12
are taken from Proverbs,
and in Proverbs chapter 3,
it discusses discipline,
but there towards the end of the discussion
in Proverbs 3 verse 18,
it gives this beautiful invitation
to all of us.
Proverbs 3 and verse 18,
it says about discipline,
it is a tree of life
to those who take hold of it
and those who keep firmhold of it
will be called happy.
So joyfully accept the council,
view it as an embrace from Jehovah God.